---
published: false
---
I have had a bad sleep today mainly owing to having convoluted, unpleasant dreams where the specific problem I was grappling with yesterday at work kept recurring in various forms in the dream. This always happens with me, and I am sure some of you out there would have had the same, after I have done one particular thing over and over for an extended time and exhausted my brain over the day. 

There was an idea floating in my mind sometime before I started with this blog. The idea was to film [my walk to the office](https://goo.gl/maps/gNZX9jMHYv82 "Google Maps route from Currey Road to Peninsula Business Park"). This might sound like a pretentious and uninteresting exercise but hear me out. There is so much a camera can document on my way to work. The bridge I walk through holds the Curry Road station. On the weekdays this is a rush-hour location from where hundreds of thousands of office workers from up north and living around here roll into Lower Parel. Vehicular traffic is massive and the bridge intersection is the most chaotic. People everywhere, each with a different intention, hot sun, vehicles trying to almost threaten pedestrians blocking their way, the monorail bridge overhead steering south, the significant sunlight reflected off the glass from Marathon Futurex. After you take a right from there and climb onto the east-west bridge crossing the Western Line and holding the Lower Parel station you catch sight of the most marvelous scenery. The high-rises of Worli and Lower parel clearly visible always under construction, never complete. This is only the backdrop to the second decade of the 21st Century. The people and their mannerism and rush is the most exciting to watch. A new world to get lost in for 15 minutes.

But ofcourse such a film is never coming, not from me atleast. There is something about hyper-realistic films I have come to appreciate a lot after encountering the works of Richard Linklater. Take his [Before Trilogy](https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/before-sunrise-1995 "Roger Ebert's review of Before Sunrise") for example. The film is rather simple in its technicality but profound when it comes to execution. The actors and the direction is unprecedented. Its just two people walking by the city and talking to each other. Now, only someone who has experienced this lot can understand the uniqueness and the subversion of this act. To truly connect with another human being however brief a time that may be is a revolutionary act - a revolution against the numerous instances and the majority fraction of life where we just glide by people and fail to notice or occupy their mind. To cut the bullshit, to recognize this and make a film of such subtley is pure fun to watch on screen. Do take time to watch it if you get the time. 

See you tomorrow,  
Avi.