---
published: false
---
[_Call Me By Your Name_](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/12/04/call-me-by-your-name-an-erotic-triumph "New Yorker review of 'Call Me By Your Name'") did something to me. It tapped on my fears and feeded on a part of me well known to be sensitive in most humans. The thing about the film is the story of how we came to watch it and how the events of my external world unfolded just before and after. 

We watched the film in three sittings. I was very excited initially because of the reviews, the academic world undertones and ofcourse of the beautiful setting in North Italy (which for some reason I believed to be France). Also yours humbly has been lately obssesed with love stories to be honest. I really yearn to be washed by the unique and heartbreaking ones. I still believe the genre has much to give, much to tell. And I've been on the lookout for them. Recently got myself a copy of Longus' [_Daphnis and Chloe_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daphnis_and_Chloe "Wikipedia article for Longus' Daphnis and Chloe") for example. The first two sittings were a time when I was surrounded by someone among my friends falling for each other around me that we, my girlfriend and I, were really excited about. By the time we watched the final part of the film and witnessed the softest and hardest heartbreak, things between our friends were not going as we wished to at all. The weird thing about these things are, an another relationship blossoming around us brought a feeling of freshness to our own and the stalling of it taught me the value of it all, fleeting, fragile and subtle.  

Last night, while we had been to the mall and waiting for my order of falafel to get ready I concluded something with "I guess I'm not comfortable in my own body.". 