---
published: false
---
[ The Dictionary Of Obscure Sorrows_](http://www.dictionaryofobscuresorrows.com/ "Hyperlink to The Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows site") by John Koenig is the kind of project that makes me boil in jealousy. This is not just owing to its great success but also the sheer simplicity of its core idea and a wish that this could have occurred to me first and had this become _my_ lifelong obsession and work.

I was sitting in the grammar class, the one I have mentioned earlier, pondering on the little atoms of speech that makes up a sentence. Atoms which flow from me naturally somehow the very moment I am writing this in accordance with grammar or my yearn for breaking it in elegant ways, combined with my personal aesthetic for English sentences. Yet, when I try thinking of it in terms of my writing's constituents and the rules that make up these sentences one is bound to be confused, fail and give up. A linguist's job is a monomanical meditation on language for a decade or more.

Single words however and the constituents that make them, and how they provoke emotion, memory, association is inherently fascinating and still seems very doable. Hence I had been avoiding watching or reading on Koenig's project owing to the envy I felt towards this _not_ being mine even after having known about it for a long time now. I think it is time I give up on ignoring it now.

There was a problem I had started to get a feel of back when in Baroda during the seventh semester of my college. I used to call this the problem of _the Metaphysics of Communication_ as self-consiously pretencious as it was. Those near me might have heard of the term now a million times. Though I never used to elucidate what it was and any attempts by me to explain it here my only result in crypticism that has been my agenda to avoid. I will take these risks nevertheless, breaking rules as important as making them.

There was a gap in me that I believed made me failure in communicating effectively or connect with any human being. I had friends but all except one knew nothing about me, and I knew nothing about them. I used a fancy term for this asociality, this missing thing but the reason it was important for me to frame was because I was genuinely missing connecting to human beings as much as I showed externally how I did not care about other people. But the term is not just about me but about the dynamics of connection in general. How do two people connect with each other? How does one feel a euphoria just by conversing with this other person? When does just taking a walk with this person become the most profundest things you could do **RIGHT NOW**? Is it just about them being involved with you in a romanticc sense (and it is defintely not that)? Those are some of the questions this made-up field might seek to answer.

After our seventh-semester finals, back in December 2016, four of us took a trip to Goa. I was the most open and receptive to ideas and experiences at that time than I ever was. This is what I carried when I moved to Bombay in January next year for my upcoming internship here. Here's is the mail I sent to [Akash](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HgzGwKwLmgM "YouTube link to Queen's Don't Stop Me Now") on 6th Febrary having now spent a month and week in Bombay.


