---
published: false
---
There is something about a daily routine I believe everyone comes to appreciate after some point in their lives. For me that time came now some while back. What I realize is how much I have given heed to bodily comfort and the need for immediate gratification over the years and what toll such behaviour has taken on my habits and general well-being. 

I am back in Bombay. I got here yesterday in the morning. The travel occupied me for three hours from 7 to 11 and I had other obligations due to which I missed out on my morning write-up for this blog for the first time in eight days. The missed schedule was really disorienting to be honest. I did manage to complete it before midnight thankfully. But the thing about discipline is once you miss out once on a timeout for an obligation things pretty much start snowballing really quick. I have no plans on repeating this again.

I usually write posts early in the morning from 7:30 onwards before work on weekdays when I am here and late on weekends as like today for example. It's almost 10 and I am yet to be anywhere near completion. Early morning writing and committing to this blog in general has brought me another challenge which is: having a PC becomes necessary. I cannot do it on my phone. It's disorienting. My current laptop is a HP Pavillion with damaged batteries which means it requires me to plug in the power all the time I am using it. On the other hand, it is highly bulky, makes weird sounds doing even the simplest of things (I tried cleaning the fan and the insides, did not help) and generates a lot of heat that makes it practically useless when it comes to using it like its generic name seems to promise (i.e. _laptop_). I am thinking of buying a new one but saving for it is going to take me some time. I now know however the kind that I require: blazing fast, unbelievably lightweight and tiny in dimensions with a really good display and graphics. 

What I have been concerned about the last few days has been the quality of this blog. I usually get an hour to primarily write posts for this blog but the short ones like those I posted over the time I was with family on a holiday took me just over half an hour to write the primary content. This time plus the arbitary infinity for edits. My edits could go on for an entire day which means the post take a day to stabilize and things may change from morning to evening. I haven't figured out a mechanism to make it happen otherwise. All in all, my holiday blogs, expecting them to come out the finest of them all, very nauseatingly came out the most, if not completely pathetic at least in my opinion, mellow. Which is not that bad a word by the way but not what I was aiming for. Anyway I have been unsatisfied with my writing ever since I left for home and hopefully being back in the city does bring me relief and the routine brings the quality of my writing to where I want it to be.

See you tomorrow,  
Avi.

P.S. Oh, and here is a [sweet song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q66yTkrzosI "YouTube link to Slim Whitman's Rose Marie") for today.