---
published: false
---
A generic quote someone I know on Whatsapp attributes to Harvey MacKay: _A dream is just a dream. A goal is a dream with a plan and a deadline_.

I started this blog with the intention of reaching two different goals. Both of these goals are very similar in nature. They require me to put in enormous amounts of discipline and require that I work [deeply](http://www.contemplify.com/2017/10/24/041-cal-newport-on-kindling-an-examined-life-through-deep-work-author-of-deep-work/ "Contemplify episode with Cal Newport"). And since I cannot allocate huge monolithic chunks of my life to them as of now, it becomes important that I build a discipline of daily effort towards them where I allocate a set amount of hours in a day. The poorly understood compounding should do the rest of my work afterward if am honest with myself. The first of these goals has a much much earlier deadline and is something I cannot even reveal or discuss at length as of now. The second of these is to master the art of writing. Starting the blog was a part of reaching this second goal. It does not form the whole picture of reaching the second goal but it is an important part in the process and the first one at that. I have been regretting not writing enough or at all for as long as I can remember now and I have finally been doing it with this blog. 

Unless the first goal is not in crisis that is. You see, the blog was started with the intention that my hours at night would be allocated towards the first goal and my hours in the early morning towards this blog. But due to laziness 