---
published: false
---
There is a place in my hometown I had been searching for a few years back. A place settled among the trees and the sun and beautiful in all capacity. The mountains fascinated me for a value of hiddeness that theey brought. I did find that place when I started wandering the forests around a local hill on the top of which was situated a small fort and a temple. I was looking for privacy ofcourse but I was also looking for a spot to call my own, somewhere once I connect to person, could bring them here and show a peice of me. 

One of such other places is the Waghai botanical garden one encounters on the road to Saputara. I have visited this place many times over the years. This has always been during family trips and never alone did I muster enough will to visit this beautiful tapestry of a place nestled among the mountains of South Gujarat. I have beautiful memories of this place and in my mind it only fires a sense of romanticism whenever a recall takes place. The botanical garden is big to say the least and by all accounts much removed from the normal patterns of urbanity and pace. Being a stop so calming to the senses on the way to this hillstation visitors on the way there usually stop here for a break. Most people usually confine themselves to the gardens just right near the entrance and find the inner forests and plots of trees and plants rather boring abstracting it away it to a singular green. But these are the most rewarding zones of the entire place. The trees and the plants are painstakingly labelled with their names and uses, well-maintained and lovingly taken care of by the local gardeners there. Someday I will come here, lay back and work the gardens.

Yesterday while visiting my nani